# Algotrading Simulation Project

 In this project, we develop an algorithmic trading strategy based on ML decisions designed to predict daily stock market direction with the goal of outperforming the market. The project combines the two types of statistical learning methods learned in the Data Analytics course with financial data analysis knowledge from our Finance specialization to simulate a trading strategy based on predicted stock movements.
 
Traditional investors often struggle to consistently outperform the market. By leveraging machine learning models, we aim to capture hidden patterns in historical data and design a systematic trading approach that is data-driven, adaptive and potentially more profitable than passive investment.

In our project we use the K-Means Clustering method to build a diversified trading portfolio. Feature engineering is used to generate lagged returns and momentum-based signals. After deriving our predictor variables, we apply three supervised machine learning models- logistic regression, decision tree and random forest to predict if the stock is going to close at higher price than today. The predictions of those models are used in combination with a precision-weighted investment function that dynamically allocates capital depending on the agreement and confidence of the models. With this information, we backtest the strategy by simulating daily trading and we compare the results of it to the S&P 500 on key performance metrics. 

Through this project, we expect to demonstrate that a data-driven, model-based trading strategy can outperform passive investment in the market index over a multiyear period. Specifically, we anticipate that our predictive models will be able to capture meaningful patterns in the stock data, which would suggest that our models are not just overfitting noise but are learning useful information. We will check if the strategy handles different market conditions more adaptively, if it shows a superior Sharpe ratio than the benchmark, indicating that the returns we generate are not just high, but also adjusted for the risk we are taking and finally if trading each company in the portfolio is better than a passive investment in them.
